# Why I'm still bullish on Juno

Hello! I'm dimi 🦙, for those who don't know me I helped founding Juno contributing to its launch phase with my protocols and engineering abilities. I'm now one of the 7 multisig members of the Juno Treasury, better know as Core-1. In this note I'd like to explore the current status of Junø, where are we going next and share more transparently what is happening behind the scenes.

## Origins - The idea behind Juno

Juno started as a community initiative, since the very beginning of the chain every single parameter has been shaped and cofigured to put the community and individual holders as primary focus of the network. Unlike many other blockchains we decided to go in the hard way - taking no money from VCs and with a token distribution highly in favor of the individuals supporting the project. 

The genesis allocation was the following

- **47.24%** Liquid airdrop to ATOM stakers
- **30.82%** Community Pool
- **15.54%** Treasury (The multisig mentioned in my intro)
- **3.66%** Hack Juno - A development competition we had pre-launch
- **2.74%** Core 1 Individuals - this % is split between the frist 5 multising members as private allocations

The objective of the network was simply to became one of the major Cross-Chain Smart Contract platform, by using community funds to attract builders and drive token demand trough transaction fees.

Of course, this was a very naive vision that could work only in a bull market, especially with the attached high inflation we have. 

## Mistakes down the road

Almost two years already passed from genesis, and since then a lot of stuff happened and a lot of mistakes have been made too. Some by Core-1, some by other SubDAOs and even some by independent projects. To recall some:

- Unclarity about vested but stakable token allocations
- Lack of analisys over Osmosis token distribution - which was very similar to our - that could have prevented prop 16
- Prop 16 itself
- No diversification of the treasury into other tokens
- Oversized funding for projects that were not driving back enough value to the community
- JunoSwap role & incentives 
- Lack of accountability between various SubDAOs
- Lack of juno-specific building resources

..and probabily more.

I will not spend time explaining why these thing were mistakes and I invite you to reach out to me if you want some more explaining around a specific event / topic. 

## Token price

Token price have been free falling since around one year now, making new lows every day. The downtrend of JUNO is similar to the ones of other Blockchains in the ecosystem, but slighly amplified because of our true holders decentralization. Having retails owning majority of the tokens make it way more volatile compared to others, and this is just fisiologic. 

Trying to find a single cause of the selling pressure is very oversighted, and more probably this is happening because of a combination of factors which include: lost of faith in the leadership, unfavorable tokenomics, grants, rising of competition, and general bear market. 

On the other hand, there is also a lack of demand. The only small demand we have is coming from existing holders, passionate about the project and that are still trying to make it successfull. 

The demand of a token, as in every other network, is driven mostly by expectation of returns and the utility of the token itself. If both expectations and actual utility are lacking, also demand will go down. 

These paragraphs are quite obvious, but it will be useful to better understand why instead I'm bullish on the project.

## Juno Strenghts
While reading the paragraphs above will make you scream "*omg it's a sinking ship! we'll never recover from this situation*", let me expand also what are the major strenghts of Juno, which in my opinion highly compensate all these mistakes and will allow us to move forward with a solid baseground to fix any possible issue.

### Social structure
We are the only blockchain, besides Bitcoin and memecoins, without a company dictating roadmap and vision. As of today speaking, the only few indivuduals that got a token allocation in genesis, still hold a very minor part of the token supply, leaving full governing power to retails and holders. Our SubDAO structure to handle every aspect of the chain is the most innovative in the space. Anyone can contribute offering his services to the existing SubDAOs or even create new ones if there is a new specific need, this effectively makes Juno a "modular" DAO able to shape itself for any need. Is it perfect? No. We still need to work together and standardize a lot of the processes in place, so that the mechanism will work smoothly.

### Community passion
The reason why Juno has all this drama, is because community is super involved in discussions and really want to see the project succeeding. They have direct skin in the game, and they are ready to support projects building in good faith with fair economies. The marketing advantage for projects deciding to build on Juno is huge compared to other networks, allowing them to immediately reach a broad audiance from the beginning.

### Builders & Technology
Even if the builders community of Juno is not the biggest, the ones that are still building are the best in space and all have a lot of skin in the game. At the same time, juno have an unique approach about new features and technology, we've always offered the latest and the best technology for smartcontract building and we'll continue to do so.

## Battle plan

Now that you know the mistakes and the strenghts you can immediately understand that Juno have some issues that need to be addressed as soon as possible. 

### Leadership

At the present moment, community is highly asking for more leadership even if that was something we always tried to avoid from genesis in the sake of decentralization. This ask is totally understandable, and I agree that some more direction would be useful, but without forgetting that we are still a DAO and everything should be made in the most transparent way possible. 

I'm not sure if Core-1 is the proper group of people to take this role, for sure we have been always aware to almost everything happening onchain and we might be the ones with the most understaing of the situation. If community thinks we need some new figures to "drive" Juno, I would be more than happy to help drafting an Election System and either convert Core-1 to a basic treasury management multisig or even disband it entirely and send funds back to community pool in vision of another way to handle it. 

If instead you think Core-1 can still play a major role in Juno, we need to change a few things. 

1. **Work Log** - The SubDAO should report back to the community the work done on a scheduled timeframe
2. **Feedbacks platform** - We need to give a way to the community to directly propose things to core-1, or give feedbacks.
3. **Clear objectives** - We need to define what are the objectives we want to achieve and a way to measure the progress towards it.
4. **Transparency discloses** - Every member should make it's own transparency discolses about projects involvement and other operations that might have conflict of interest.
5. **Automatic diversification** - Instead of waiting for grantees to dump the tokens we grant at any time they want, we should have an automatic diversification smart contract allowing the emission of grants in tokens that affect sell pressure in a more controlled way.

### Token Economy

As I said before the original token economy of Juno was naive and poorly balanced to be performant during both periods of overall bear and bull market. 

I think the overall economy should be rebalanced as follows:

1. Reduce overall inflation (maybe something dynamic similar to Cosmos Hub)
2. Automatically allocate % of inflation for protocol incentives, as described in my old [commonwealth post](https://commonwealth.im/juno/discussion/9697-juno-protocol-level-defi-incentives)
3. Reduce and have dynamic unbonding periods - the longer you lock the biggest share of inflation you get
4. Distribute tokens on a curve based on validator position, incentivizing decentralization of stake.
5. Split governors and validators

Token demand instead should be driven by a clear vision, a path towards a long term objective, and some real utility. The [Juno Evolution](https://medium.com/@JunoNetwork/jun%C3%B8-evolution-a-blueprint-for-the-future-2c1ecc62afcb) article briefly explains it but I'll share some more thoughts if you continue reading.

### SubDAOs

I'm convinced the decentralized structure we are building is great and it's the best way to scale. But at the same time, there are some inefficiencies that we should takle. 

Main issues are: budgeting, accountability and, also here, leadership. 

One thing that is clear and we learned since the inception of the first SubDAO is that without a manager coordinating and someone who take responsibility of the decisions it's very difficult, if not impossible, to create something productive.

This problem can be solved by drafting more standards and procedures that any SubDAO can follow to ask budget, define objectives, communicate the progress and have accountability from the community itself.

### The incubator vision

One of the potential drivers for token adoption and demand is fullfilling the "DAO incubator vision", where for DAO I mean any crypto project that want to launch in a decentralized way by taking advantage of our first-class DAO Toolings. 

Community will be compensated back by any project that decide to be bootstrapped in this ecosystem. 

To do so, we need to implement some more core features and more guidelines to take part of this movement. 

1. Clearly define how projects can ask for funding and what they must give back to the community. Example: 10% of token supply in exchange of the money required for an MVP. These guidelines should be adoped by both community pool and the various investment SubDAOs we have.
2. Provide all the tools possible to clearly show that Juno is the best place to launch a project. To mention some: feeshare, dao dao, advanced cosmwasm hooks, advanced gas management and even a tool to export you smart contract state and run it as an independet chain using mesh security.
3. Build a launchpad UI, where invidual investors can help funding ideas and show support to the upcoming projects
4. Start accumulating tokens in the community pool, some will be worthless some will be mooning. Just as any traditional world incubator does, we should invest on many projects at the same time to minimize the risk and maximize the potential returns.
5. Distribute the accumulated tokens together with Juno staking rewards, by leveraging [x/drip](https://github.com/CosmosContracts/juno/pull/709) module.

Since the money we can invest at the moment is very little, we might consider vested grants or special collaborations with projects that are willing to "test" and proof this system. When we'll have a few projects succeeding using this path, many more will came.

*FYI: This is not known by many people but community pool right now have 12M $LOOP tokens allocated. The deal with them was not very favorable, but it's an example on what we can do*

## Recap and action items

So why am I bullish on Juno? Even if there are a lot of issues to fix, I don't see those as impossible but rather quite easy to solve if we work together. Once solved, we can focus on the incubator vision and create the first really functional DAO with real "interchain yield" for all the stakers.

My action item list is the following
- Solve Core-1 situation
- Solve tokenomics
- Solve decentralization of responsibilities
- Keep building

Most of these action items have been always ongoing but communicated poorly.

Now I'd like to hear your feedbacks, and together, if you like the plan, we can start collecting more data, expand more the ideas and shape the governance proposals needed to make it happen.